src/content/blog/pokeball-challenge.mdx, before:

---
title: "CSS-Challenge: Pokeball"
description: "implementation of a pokeball using tailwind css"
pubDate: "2026-01-02 23:00:00"
icon: "Swords"
draft: false
---

# 2026 - the year of CSS

A new year, a new challenge - in 2026 i will try to improove my css skills. And whats better to do so by implementing different idea, mockups and various other things.
There is only one constraint: lets do as much as possible using tailwind. WTF, why tailwind you might say... Thats relativly easy: I am a strong believer of implementing your design systems using utility classes.
There is more: I am not a frontend expert, in fact, i am coming from the backend world. And for me tailwind is way more easy and readable than other CSS conventions.
And i would like to proof to myself that im right: tailwind is easy, and there is nothing you cannot do with it.

And whats better to get familiar with tech - whats better to get a feel of how stuff is working than just using the stuff you want to learn! - thats why i will implement new stuff every week.

## Challenge 1: Pokeball

Recently I came along this youtube video by the guys of the Syntax. Podcast [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JofAKZ15gRI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JofAKZ15gRI) - which i see now as a first good challenge!


## Result

<iframe src="/challenges/pokeball" height="400" width="100%" style="border:0;" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen" loading="lazy"></iframe>

Not bad, i'd say :)

## Learnings

- One of the great things about tailwind is its [documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs) - maybe thats what im missing when i am not using tailwind.
- linear gradients rule the world! Call me crazy, but they are [not even hard to read](https://github.com/thekorn/thekorn.github.io/blob/main/src/pages/challenges/pokeball/index.astro#L7)
    - 180° orientation
    - #d25b70 for the first 150px
    - then immidiatly #781728, until 170px
    - then white until the end

Commit message:

Integrate ColorBox component for enhanced UI visuals
- Introduce a customizable `ColorBox` component to enhance UI flexibility.
- Integrate `ColorBox` into blog content for better color visualization.

src/content/blog/pokeball-challenge.mdx, after:

---
title: "CSS-Challenge: Pokeball"
description: "implementation of a pokeball using tailwind css"
pubDate: "2026-01-02 23:00:00"
icon: "Swords"
draft: false
---

import ColorBox from "../../components/ColorBox.tsx";

# 2026 - the year of CSS

A new year, a new challenge - in 2026 i will try to improove my css skills. And whats better to do so by implementing different idea, mockups and various other things.
There is only one constraint: lets do as much as possible using tailwind. WTF, why tailwind you might say... Thats relativly easy: I am a strong believer of implementing your design systems using utility classes.
There is more: I am not a frontend expert, in fact, i am coming from the backend world. And for me tailwind is way more easy and readable than other CSS conventions.
And i would like to proof to myself that im right: tailwind is easy, and there is nothing you cannot do with it.

And whats better to get familiar with tech - whats better to get a feel of how stuff is working than just using the stuff you want to learn! - thats why i will implement new stuff every week.

## Challenge 1: Pokeball

Recently I came along this youtube video by the guys of the Syntax. Podcast [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JofAKZ15gRI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JofAKZ15gRI) - which i see now as a first good challenge!


## Result

<iframe src="/challenges/pokeball" height="400" width="100%" style="border:0;" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen" loading="lazy"></iframe>

Not bad, i'd say :)

## Learnings

- One of the great things about tailwind is its [documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs) - maybe thats what im missing when i am not using tailwind.
- linear gradients rule the world! Call me crazy, but they are [not even hard to read](https://github.com/thekorn/thekorn.github.io/blob/main/src/pages/challenges/pokeball/index.astro#L7)
    - 180° orientation
    - <ColorBox color="#d25b70" /> for the first 150px
    - then immidiatly <ColorBox color="#781728" />, until 170px
    - then white until the end
